# Course Summary

In Robota Psyche, we explore topics such as robots and consciousness, machines and what they tell us about humans, programming autonomous and complex software creatures that exhibit human or animal-like behaviors, etc. Throughout the course, I learned a lot more about robots than what I had previously known, such as how vast the field of robotics has become, our perceptions and prejudices towards them and how our future is inevitably going to be surrounded by technology. We also learnt a lot about simulating natural environments through coding in a digital environment. We had to implement behaviors and mannerisms such as fear and hunger, to create autonomous creatures that react to their surroundings and make decisions based on them. The student presentations were a brilliant aspe​ct of our classes and they brought so many different topics and concepts relating to the class, which made our discussions so thought-provoking and I often find myself still thinking about the presentations and questions that come up even after class. Sometimes the topics even relate to one another, in a way the whole class seems to be intertwined. 

I’m glad I got to give my presentation in the second half of the course, since I got to have a deeper understanding of the course itself as well as the topic that my presentation was about, which was Robots and Emotion. I am so glad we decided to go with class presentations rather than essays. I find the student presentations to be much more interesting and engaging, and it was honestly so much more fun to prepare for than an essay. We got to pick our own topics, anything that could relate to the class; it was so fun seeing what each student’s presentation was about, what they could bring to the class and to our discussions. The readings that we had for weekly discussions were always so interesting and had some new topics for us to discuss in class, whether it was social robots, or consciousness in technology or our prejudices towards humanoid robots, there was always something we could talk about relating to the readings. One of my favorite books from our discussion readings is “I, Robot” by Isaac Asimov – I just found the stories enjoyable and always interesting to go through, it felt like I was reading a bedtime story.

Our midterm project was to create an ecosystem and implement behaviors onto our system. My project was a Babysitting simulator in which the user is tasked with taking care of two children. The children cause mischief and jump and move around the screen, but you (the babysitter) can stop them by offering them some candy, which makes them like you more. Eventually, their adoration levels towards you will be so high that they stop trying to cause chaos for you. I implemented the use of PVectors, gravity (jumping), steering and arriving behaviors, etc. After we submitted our midterm projects, one of my classmates suggested we merge all of our midterms into one big ecosystem, so we divided our projects into four zones on the screen – indoors, on land, in the water and in the sky. We are currently in the process of adding in all of the projects in and trying to visually make sense of the zones, and I have made changes to my code to make it autonomous rather than user-controlled. So, I added a babysitter who moves towards the children when they act up to give them candy instead of that being done by the user when they click the mouse. 

Overall, I am glad that I chose to take this course despite it being a higher-level Interactive Media class, it has made my coding skills improve and it has also made me feel more confident when participating in discussions and presentations. 

